# Timeline Editor

## Overview
This is a program in which users can create their own timelines. The program
loads in a specially-formatted *.txt* file, generated by the program upon
saving changes to the timeline. It loads in each block of text from the file
into an Event object, which is then displayed on the timeline.

## Controls
F1 - Toggle edit mode
F2 - Toggle dating system (BC <-> BCE, AD <-> CE)
F3 - Toggle tag menu
F4 - Toggle dark mode

Left/Right - Scroll timeline by one year
Up/Down - Move timeline up/down
Ctrl + Left/Right - Scroll timeline by ten years
Shift + Left/Right - Scroll timeline by 100 years
Ctrl + Shift + Left/Right - Scroll timeline by 1000 years

Ctrl + Plus - Display fewer years
Ctrl + Minus - Display more years
Escape - Deselect event

Click on an event to select it

## Event Editor
The user can either create an event, which occurred on a single day, or a
period, with a specified start and end day.A period can also have its end date
set to be the present, representing a currently-occurring event. The present
date will be updated automatically. The user can select a category for the
event, which has a corresponding color. Both the category name and color are
stored in *categories.txt*, another text file in the Timeline folder.
By editing this file, users can create their own categories. The user can also
give the event any color they want using either the RGB or hexadecimal fields.

Single-day events by default display with their title centered on the line
connecting it to the timeline, but they can be realigned to be left or right-
justified. If an event is on the edge of the screen, where part of its title
would be cut off, it will be realigned to fit on screen.

If the user wishes to edit an event, they can click on the event while in edit
mode, make their changes in the editor, and hit the 'save' button, and the text
file containing their timeline will be updated accordingly.

## Periods
Periods are displayed as blocks under the timeline, whose left side is placed
at their start date, and right side at their end date. If either date is
off-screen, the block will instead end at the end of the timeline, and a dashed
line will be drawn trailing off-screen to indicate the period is longer than
what is displayed. The period's title will be displayed inside the block, but
if it is too long for the block, the title will be detached and displayed under
the block. Clicking on either the block or the title will select the period.

## Images
Any number of images can be added to any event or period. They can also be
given captions. Users can scroll through the events with the buttons that
appear around the images, if more images are available. The user can
classify an event as an "image event", which will display its first image
on the timeline itself, which can be used if the image itself is the most
important part of the event.

## Tags
Users can give events or periods tags, which are listed in the *tags.txt*
file inside the Timeline folder. By opening the tag menu (F3), the user can
hide any events or periods with or without a specified selection of tags.

## Using in non-edit mode
To select an event or period, simply click on it, and its title, description,
and images, if available, will display. Hit Escape or click anywhere besides
the text boxes to deselect the event.
